#### Prerequisites:
- Must have docker installed on your system: 
	- mac: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/setup/install/mac-install/
	- Linux: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/

1. Start by pulling the docker image for the version of SQL you want (I used 8.0):
	```
	docker pull mysql/mysql-server:8.0
 	```
3. Start the MySQL Community Server:
   ```
   docker run -p 3306:3306 --name=mysql1 -d mysql/mysql-server:8.0
   ```
	- This command starts the containerized server giving it the name "mysql1", exposing port 3306 to localhost and running it in daemon mode (in the background)
5. Wait until the container's health has transitioned from "starting" to "healthy". This can be checked with the following command:
	```
	docker ps
 	```
7. Once started we need to obtain the auto-generated root password with the following command:
	```
	docker logs mysql1 2>&1 | grep GENERATED
 	```
9. Now we must enter the container as root to change the password and create our user:
	```
	docker exec -it mysql1 mysql -uroot -p
 	```
	- This command executes a new shell session in the containerized server, executing the command `mysql -uroot -p` at startup to enter mysql as the root user
11. After logging in with the autogenerated password found above, we will now change the root password as is required
	```
	ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
 	```
	- This will change the password for the root user to the string contained in `'password'`, change it as you like.
13. We will now ensure the proper interface is listening so we can pass through networking from our container to MySQL workbench:
	```
	UPDATE mysql.user SET host = '%' WHERE user='root';
 	```
15. Create your standard user account:
	```
	CREATE USER 'username'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
	GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'user'@'%' WITH GRANT OPTION;
	FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
	```
16. Exit from MySQL and restart the docker container:
	```
	exit
	docker restart mysql1
	```
17. Once the container is healthy again, connect to it as your user to make sure it worked correctly and create your databases:
	```
	docker exec -it mysql1 mysql -uusername -p
 	```
19. Once we are in, we can create the class databases:
	```
	CREATE DATABASE username_ap;
	CREATE DATABASE username_mgs;
	```
20. You can now access your databases from your local MySQL installation as follows to run your scripts:
	```
	Connection Method: Standard (TCP/IP)
	Hostname: 127.0.0.1
	Port: 3306
	```
	OR you can always access the CLI by making sure the container is first running and running:
	```
	docker exec -it mysql1 mysql -uusername -p
 	```
22. When you are finished working, you can stop the container as follows:
	```
	docker stop mysql1
 	```
